PDS_VERSION_ID               = PDS3                                           
LABEL_REVISION_NOTE          = "                                              
         2016-05-06 JNO:lawton V01;                                           
         2016-05-06 PDS:mafi;                                                 
         2016-08-18 JNO:lawton;                                               
         2016-11-07 JNO:lawton"                                               
                                                                              
RECORD_TYPE                       = STREAM                                    
                                                                              
OBJECT                         = INSTRUMENT                                   
  INSTRUMENT_HOST_ID             = "JNO"                                      
  INSTRUMENT_ID                  = "FGM"                                      
                                                                              
  OBJECT                         = INSTRUMENT_INFORMATION                     
    INSTRUMENT_NAME                = "MAGNETOMETER"                           
    INSTRUMENT_TYPE                = "MAGNETOMETER"                           
    INSTRUMENT_DESC                = "                                        
                                                                              
    The Juno Magnetometer (MAG) Investigation is a principal science          
    investigation on the Juno New Frontier Mission to Jupiter. MAG will       
    conduct the first global magnetic mapping of Jupiter and contribute       
    to studies of Jupiter's polar magnetosphere.  The Juno MAG investigation  
    is designed to acquire highly accurate measurements of the magnetic       
    field in Jupiter's environment, mapping the planetary magnetic field      
    with extraordinary accuracy and spatial resolution (orders of magnitude   
    better than current knowledge).                                           
                                                                              
    The MAG Instrument Suite consists of two boom mounted observing           
    platforms (MAG Optical Bench, or MOB) each supporting a vector Fluxgate   
    Magnetometer (FGM) and two non-magnetic Advanced Stellar Compass (ASC)    
    Camera Head Units (CHUs).  The FGM uses two miniature ring-core fluxgate  
    sensors to measure the magnetic field in three components of the vector   
    field.  The ASC determines the attitude of the MOB in inertial space      
    and relative to the JUNO spacecraft's Stellar Reference Units (SRU). The  
    FGM was built at the Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC); the ASC was      
    built at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU).                       
                                                                              
    The Juno FGM is fully redundant, with two identical power converters      
    providing power to one of two identical field programmable gate array     
    (FPGA)-based digital systems. Only one set (power converter and digital   
    system) is powered at a time; the other is a cold back-up. Either set     
    receives commands from, and transmits data to, either side of the         
    spacecraft command and data handling (C&DH) unit through redundant        
    interfaces. Two identical sets of analog electronics, both continuously   
    powered by either power converter, drive the outboard (OB) and inboard    
    (IB) sensors, via separate cables connecting the remote FGM sensors and   
    electronics box, and both are controlled by and communicate with either   
    of the digital systems. No single point failure can result in loss of     
    data from both OB and IB FGM sensors.                                     

    Each FGM sensor block uses two miniature ring-core fluxgate sensors       
    to measure the magnetic field in three components of the vector field.    
    Each of the two ring-core sensors measures the field in two orthogonal    
    directions in the plane of the ring core. With two such sensors,          
    oriented in planes intersecting at 90 degrees, all three components       
    of the vector field are measured (one component measured, redundantly,    
    by both). The sensor electronics uses negative feedback to null the       
    magnetic field in each core, providing linearity over the full dynamic    
    range of the instrument. The field in each ring core is both sensed and   
    nulled by a pair of nested coils within which the ring core resides.      
    Each coil nulls the field in one of the two perpendicular axes that       
    define the plane of the ring core sensing element. All elements are       
    maintained in precise alignment by a sensor block assembly constructed    
    of a machinable glass ceramic with low thermal expansion (MACOR) and      
    excellent mechanical stability. The FGM sensor block attaches to the      
    optical bench via a three point kinematic mount to maintain accurate      
    alignment over the range or environments experienced. The FGM sensor      
    block is designed to operate at about 0 degrees C, whereas the optical    
    bench and CHUs are designed to operate at about -58 degrees C to          
    minimize noise and radiation effects. The FGM sensor block is thermally   
    isolated from the optical bench via the three point kinematic mount and   
    individual thermal blanketing. The FGM sensor itself is impervious to     
    radiation effects.                                                        

    The two FGM sensors are separated by 2 meters on the MAG boom, one        
    sensor (inboard, or 'IB' sensor) is located 2 m radially outward from     
    the end of the solar array and the other sensor (outboard, or 'OB'        
    sensor) is located at the outer end of the MAG boom. This arrangement     
    ('dual magnetometer') provides the capability to monitor spacecraft-      
    generated magnetic fields in flight. The MAG boom is located on the       
    outermost end of one (+x panel) of three solar panels and is designed     
    to mimic the outermost solar array panel (of the other two solar array    
    structures) in mass and mechanical deployment. The OB and IB sensor       
    packages are identical. The CHUs measure the attitude of the sensor       
    assembly continuously in flight to 20 arcsec and are used to establish,   
    and continuously monitor, the attitude of the sensor assembly with        
    respect to the spacecraft SRUs through cruise, orbit insertion at         
    Jupiter, and initial science orbits. In addition to the extraordinarily   
    accurate attitude reference provided by the MAG investigation's multiple  
    ASC CHUs, the spacecraft provides (reconstructed) knowledge of the FGM    
    sensor assembly attitude to an accuracy of 200 arcsec throughout the      
    mission, using sensors on the body of the spacecraft and knowledge of     
    the attitude transfer between the ASC camera heads and spacecraft SRUs.   
    This provides a redundant attitude determination capability that could    
    be used if ASC attitude solutions are interrupted for any reason (e.g.,   
    blinding by a sunlit Jupiter obscuring the field of view for certain      
    geometries, radiation effects). If this redundant capability is required  
    at any time, the stability of the mechanical system (MAG boom, solar      
    array hinges, structure, and articulation strut) linking the body of      
    the spacecraft (SRU reference) to the FGM sensors (and CHUs) is an        
    important element in satisfying the spacecraft requirement.               

    The Juno MAG sensors are remotely mounted (at approximately 10 m and      
    12 m) along a dedicated MAG boom that extends along the spacecraft +x     
    axis, attached to the outer end of one of the spacecraft's three solar    
    array structures. This design provides the maximum practical separation   
    between MAG sensors and spacecraft to mitigate spacecraft-generated       
    magnetic fields which would otherwise contaminate the measurements.       
    A comprehensive magnetic control program is in place to ensure that       
    the spacecraft magnetic field at the MAG sensors does not exceed 2 nT     
    static or 0.5 nT variable. The separated, dual FGM sensors provide        
    capability to monitor spacecraft-generated magnetic fields in flight.     

    The JUNO sensor design covers the wide dynamic range with six instrument  
    ranges (see below) increasing by factors of four the dynamic range in     
    successive steps. The analog signals are digitized with a 16 bit analog   
    to digital (A/D) converter, which yields a resolution of +/- 32768 steps  
    for each dynamic range. In the table below, resolution, equal to half     
    the quantization step size for each range, is listed in parentheses.      
                                                                              
       FGM Characteristics        Dual Tri-Axial Ring Core Fluxgate           
                                                                              
       Dynamic range (resolution)       16.3840 G (+/-25.0 nT)                
                                         4.0960 G (+/-6.25 nT)                
                                         1.0240 G (+/-1.56 nT)                
                                         0.2560 G (+/-0.391 nT)               
               (1 G = 100,000 nT)         6400 nT (+/-0.10 nT)                
                                          1600 nT (+/-0.02 nT)                
       Measurement accuracy:         0.01% absolute vector accuracy           
       Intrinsic noise level         <<1 nT (range dependent)                 
       Zero level stability           <1 nT (calibrated)                      
       Intrinsic sample rate          64 vector samples/s                     
                                                                              
    The data from each sensor can be in one of eight data formats. The        
    instrument intrinsic sample rate of 64 samples/second is supported        
    in data formats 0 and 1; averages over 2 to the n power samples           
    (n = 1,2,3,4,5,6) are supported in telemetry modes 2 through 7.           
                                                                              
    The MAG instrument suite is described in full detail in                   
    [CONNERNEYETAL2016]."                                                     
                                                                              
                                                                              
  END_OBJECT                     = INSTRUMENT_INFORMATION                     
                                                                              
  OBJECT                         = INSTRUMENT_REFERENCE_INFO                  
    REFERENCE_KEY_ID               =  "CONNERNEYETAL2016"                     
  END_OBJECT                     = INSTRUMENT_REFERENCE_INFO                  
                                                                              
END_OBJECT                     = INSTRUMENT                                   
END                                                                           
